- [ ] Todo

> ![NOTE]
> Stuff

> [!Important]
> stuff AT: 09:13 AM

> [!Important]
> stuff END: 09:15 AM

> [!important] 
> Stuff that is ALL DAY

> [!important] 
> new stuff AT: 12:15 AM

> [!NOTE]
> Stuff

# python

## Simple Operations

Python has the capability of carrying out calculations. Enter a
calculation directly into a print statement:

```py
print(2 + 2)
print(5 + 4 -3)
```

> The spaces around the plus and the minus signs here are **optional**
> (the code would work without them) but they make it easier to read.

Python also carries out multiplication and division, using an **asterisk
\*** to indicate multiplication and a **forward slash /** to indicate
division.

Use **parentheses** to determine which operations are performed first.


```py
print(2*(3+4))
print(10/2)
```


> Using a single slash to divide numbers produces a decimal (or
> ***float***, as it is called in programming). We'll learn more about
> **floats** later.

Dividing by zero produces an **error** in python, as no answer can be
calculated.


```py
 print(11/0)

 Traceback(most recent call last):
  File"\<stdin\>", line 1, in \<module\>
 ZeroDivisionError: division by zero
```


> In python, the last line of an error message indicates the error's
> type. Read error messages carefully, as they often tell you how to fix
> a program!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Floats

**Floats** are used in python to represent numbers that **aren't
integers** (whole numbers). Some examples of numbers that are
represented as floats are 0.5 and -7.8538953. They can be created
directly by entering a number with a decimal point, or by using
operations such as division on integers.


```py
print(3/4)
```


> Computers can't store floats perfectly accurately, in the same way we
> can't write down the complete decimal expansion of 1/3
> (0.333333333...). Keep this in mind, because it often leads to
> infuriating bugs!

A float is also produced by running an operation on two floats, or on a
float and an integer.

> A float can be added to an integer, because Python silently converts
> the ineger to a float.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Exponentiation

Besides addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, Python also
supports exponentiation, which is raising of one number to the power of
another. This operation is performed using two asterisks.


```py
print(2**5)
print(9**(1/2))
```


> You can chain exponentiation together. In other words, you can raise a
> number to multiple powers. Eg. 2\*\*3\*\*2

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Quotient

**Floor division** is done using two forward slashes and is used to
determine the **quotient** of a division (the quantity produced by the
division of two numbers).

**For example:**


```py
print(20//6)
```


The code above will output 3. \>You can also use floor division on
floats

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Remainder

The **modulo operator** is carried out with a percent symbol (%) and is
used to get the **remainder** of a division.

**For example:**


```py
print(20%6)
print(1.25%0.5)
```


> All numerical operators can also be used with floats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Strings

If you want to use text in python, you have to use a *string*. A
*string* is created by entering text between **two single or double
quotation marks.**


```py
print("Python is fun!")
print("Always look on the bright side")
```


> The delimiter (" or ') used for a string doesn't affect how it behaves
> in any way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Backslash

Some characters cant be directly included in a *string*. For instance,
double quotes can't be directly included in a double quote *string*;
this would cause it to end prematurely.

Characters like double quotes must be escaped by placing a **backslash**
before them. Double quotes need to be escaped in double quotes strings
only, and the same is true for single quotes strings. **For Example:**


```py
print('Brian\'s mother: He\'s not an angel. He\'s a naughty boy!')
```


> Backslashes can also be used to escape tabs, arbitrary Unicode
> characters, and various other things that can't be reliably printed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Newlines

\*\*\* represents a new line. It can be used in strings to create
multi-line output.


```py
print('One **\n** Two **\n** Three')
```


Newlines will automatically be added for strings that are created using
three quotes.


```py
print("""This
is a
multiline
text""")
```


> Similarly, \*\* represents a tab.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Concatenation

As with integers and floats, strings in Python can be added, using a
process called *concatenation*, which can be done on any two strings.


```py
print("Spam" + 'eggs')
```


> When concatenating strings, it doesn't matter whether they have been
> created with single or double quotes, as seen above

> Adding a string to a number produces an error, as even though they
> might look similar, they are two different entities

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### String Operations

Strings can also be **multiplied** with integers. This produces a
repeated version of that *string*. The order of the *string* and the
*integer* doesn't matter, but the *string* usually comes first.


```py
print("spam"*3)

print(4*'2')
```


> Strings can't be multiplied with other strings. Strings also can't be
> multiplied by floats, even if the floats are whole numbers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Variables

A *variable* allows you to store a value by assigning it to a name,
which can be used to refer to the value later in the program. For
example, in game development, you would use a *variable* to to store the
points of the player.

To assign a *variable*, use **one equals sign**.


```py
user = "James"
```


You can use variables to perform corresponding operations, just as you
did with numbers and strings:


```py
x = 7
print(x)

print(x + 3)
print(x)
```


> The *variable* stores its value throughout the program.

Variables can be assigned as many times as you want, in order to change
their value. In python, variables don't have specific types, so you can
assign a *string* to a *variable*, and later assign an *integer* to the
same *variable*.


```py
x = 123.456
print(x)

x = "This is a string"
print(x+"!")
```


