- [ ] Todo
> ![NOTE]
> Stuff
> [!Important]
> stuff AT: 09:13 AM

> [!Important]
> stuff END: 09:15 AM

> [!important] 
> Stuff that is ALL DAY

> [!important] 
> new stuff AT: 12:15 AM
- [ ] Todo
> [!NOTE]
> Stuff

# python

## Simple Operations

Python has the capability of carrying out calculations. Enter a
calculation directly into a print statement:

```py
print(2 + 2)
print(5 + 4 -3)
```

> The spaces around the plus and the minus signs here are **optional**
> (the code would work without them) but they make it easier to read.

Python also carries out multiplication and division, using an **asterisk
\*** to indicate multiplication and a **forward slash /** to indicate
division.

Use **parentheses** to determine which operations are performed first.


```py
print(2*(3+4))
print(10/2)
```


> Using a single slash to divide numbers produces a decimal (or
> ***float***, as it is called in programming). We'll learn more about
> **floats** later.

Dividing by zero produces an **error** in python, as no answer can be
calculated.


```py
 print(11/0)

 Traceback(most recent call last):
  File"\<stdin\>", line 1, in \<module\>
 ZeroDivisionError: division by zero
```


> In python, the last line of an error message indicates the error's
> type. Read error messages carefully, as they often tell you how to fix
> a program!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Floats

**Floats** are used in python to represent numbers that **aren't
integers** (whole numbers). Some examples of numbers that are
represented as floats are 0.5 and -7.8538953. They can be created
directly by entering a number with a decimal point, or by using
operations such as division on integers.


```py
print(3/4)
```


> Computers can't store floats perfectly accurately, in the same way we
> can't write down the complete decimal expansion of 1/3
> (0.333333333...). Keep this in mind, because it often leads to
> infuriating bugs!

A float is also produced by running an operation on two floats, or on a
float and an integer.

> A float can be added to an integer, because Python silently converts
> the ineger to a float.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Exponentiation

Besides addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, Python also
supports exponentiation, which is raising of one number to the power of
