- [ ] Todo
> ![NOTE]
> Stuff
> [!Important]
> stuff AT: 09:13 AM

> [!Important]
> stuff END: 09:15 AM

> [!important] 
> Stuff that is ALL DAY

> [!important] 
> new stuff AT: 12:15 AM
- [ ] Todo
> [!NOTE]
> Stuff

# python

## Simple Operations

Python has the capability of carrying out calculations. Enter a
calculation directly into a print statement:

```py
print(2 + 2)
print(5 + 4 -3)
```

> The spaces around the plus and the minus signs here are **optional**
> (the code would work without them) but they make it easier to read.

Python also carries out multiplication and division, using an **asterisk
\*** to indicate multiplication and a **forward slash /** to indicate
division.

Use **parentheses** to determine which operations are performed first.


```py
print(2*(3+4))
print(10/2)
```


> Using a single slash to divide numbers produces a decimal (or
> ***float***, as it is called in programming). We'll learn more about
> **floats** later.

Dividing by zero produces an **error** in python, as no answer can be
calculated.


```py
 print(11/0)

 Traceback(most recent call last):
  File"\<stdin\>", line 1, in \<module\>
 ZeroDivisionError: division by zero
```


> In python, the last line of an error message indicates the error's
> type. Read error messages carefully, as they often tell you how to fix
> a program!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Floats

**Floats** are used in python to represent numbers that **aren't
integers** (whole numbers). Some examples of numbers that are
represented as floats are 0.5 and -7.8538953. They can be created
directly by entering a number with a decimal point, or by using
operations such as division on integers.


```py
print(3/4)
```


> Computers can't store floats perfectly accurately, in the same way we
> can't write down the complete decimal expansion of 1/3
> (0.333333333...). Keep this in mind, because it often leads to
> infuriating bugs!

A float is also produced by running an operation on two floats, or on a
float and an integer.

> A float can be added to an integer, because Python silently converts
> the ineger to a float.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Exponentiation

Besides addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, Python also
supports exponentiation, which is raising of one number to the power of
another. This operation is performed using two asterisks.


```py
print(2**5)
print(9**(1/2))
```


> You can chain exponentiation together. In other words, you can raise a
> number to multiple powers. Eg. 2\*\*3\*\*2

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Quotient

**Floor division** is done using two forward slashes and is used to
determine the **quotient** of a division (the quantity produced by the
division of two numbers).

**For example:**


```py
print(20//6)
```


The code above will output 3. \>You can also use floor division on
floats

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Remainder

The **modulo operator** is carried out with a percent symbol (%) and is
used to get the **remainder** of a division.

**For example:**


```py
print(20%6)
print(1.25%0.5)
```


> All numerical operators can also be used with floats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Strings

If you want to use text in python, you have to use a *string*. A
*string* is created by entering text between **two single or double
quotation marks.**


```py
print("Python is fun!")
print("Always look on the bright side")
```


> The delimiter (" or ') used for a string doesn't affect how it behaves
> in any way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Backslash

Some characters cant be directly included in a *string*. For instance,
double quotes can't be directly included in a double quote *string*;
this would cause it to end prematurely.

Characters like double quotes must be escaped by placing a **backslash**
before them. Double quotes need to be escaped in double quotes strings
only, and the same is true for single quotes strings. **For Example:**


```py
print('Brian\'s mother: He\'s not an angel. He\'s a naughty boy!')
```


> Backslashes can also be used to escape tabs, arbitrary Unicode
> characters, and various other things that can't be reliably printed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Newlines

\*\*\* represents a new line. It can be used in strings to create
multi-line output.


```py
print('One **\n** Two **\n** Three')
```


Newlines will automatically be added for strings that are created using
three quotes.


```py
print("""This
is a
multiline
text""")
```


> Similarly, \*\* represents a tab.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Concatenation

As with integers and floats, strings in Python can be added, using a
process called *concatenation*, which can be done on any two strings.


```py
print("Spam" + 'eggs')
```


> When concatenating strings, it doesn't matter whether they have been
> created with single or double quotes, as seen above

> Adding a string to a number produces an error, as even though they
> might look similar, they are two different entities

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### String Operations

Strings can also be **multiplied** with integers. This produces a
repeated version of that *string*. The order of the *string* and the
*integer* doesn't matter, but the *string* usually comes first.


```py
print("spam"*3)

print(4*'2')
```


> Strings can't be multiplied with other strings. Strings also can't be
> multiplied by floats, even if the floats are whole numbers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Variables

A *variable* allows you to store a value by assigning it to a name,
which can be used to refer to the value later in the program. For
example, in game development, you would use a *variable* to to store the
points of the player.

To assign a *variable*, use **one equals sign**.


```py
user = "James"
```


You can use variables to perform corresponding operations, just as you
did with numbers and strings:


```py
x = 7
print(x)

print(x + 3)
print(x)
```


> The *variable* stores its value throughout the program.

Variables can be assigned as many times as you want, in order to change
their value. In python, variables don't have specific types, so you can
assign a *string* to a *variable*, and later assign an *integer* to the
same *variable*.


```py
x = 123.456
print(x)

x = "This is a string"
print(x+"!")
```


> However, this is not a good practice. To avoid mistakes, try to avoid
> overwriting the same *variable* with different data types.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Variable Names

Certain restrictions apply in regard to the characters that may be used
in python *variable* names. The only characters that are allowed are
**letters, numbers and underscore**. Also, they can't start with
numbers. Not following these rules results in errors.


```py
this_is_a_normal_name = 7

123abc = 7
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```


> Python is a case sensitive programming language. Thus, **lastname**
> and **Lastname** are two different *variable* names in python.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use the **del** statement to remove a *variable*, which means
the reference from the name to the value is deleted, and trying to use
the *variable* causes an error.


```py
foo = 3
del foo
print(foo)
```


Deleted variables can also e reassigned to later as normal.


```py
foo = 2
bar = 3
del bar
bar = 8
print(foo + bar)
```


> The variables **foo** and **bar** are called **metasyntactic**
> variables, meaning they are used as placeholder names in example code
> to demonstrate something.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Input

To get input from the user in python, you can use the intuitively named
**input** *function*. For example, a game can ask for a user's name and
age as input and use them in the game.

The input *function* prompts the user for input, and returns what they
enter as a *string* (with the contents automatically escaped).


```py
x = input()
print(x)
```


> Even if the user enters a number as an input, it is processed as a
> **string**.

The **input** statement needs to be followed by parentheses. You can
provide a *string* to **input()** between the parentheses, producing a
prompt message.


```py
name = input("Enter your name: ")
print("Hello"+name)
```


> The prompt message helps clarify what the input is asking for.

To convert the string to a number, we can use the **int()** *function*:


```py
age =int(input())
print(age)
```


Similarly, in order to convert a number to a *string*, the str()
*function* is used. This can be useful if you need to use a number in
*string concatenation*. **For example:**


```py
age = 42
print("His age is" + str(age))
```


> You can convert to float using the float() function.

You can take input multiple times to take multiple user input. **For
example:**


```py
name = input()
age = input()

print(name + "is" + age)
```


> When input function executes, program flow stops until the user enters
> some value.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## In Place Operators

**In-place operators** allow you to write code like `x = x + 3` more
concisely as `x +=3` . The same thing is possible with other operators
such as **-,\*, /, and %** as well.


```py
x = 2
print(x)

x += 3
print(x)
```


These operators can be used on types other than numbers, as well, such
as **strings.**


```py
x= "spam"
print(x)

x += "eggs"
print(x)
```


> In-place operators can be used for any numerical operation
> (+,-,\*,/,%,\*\*,//).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Booleans

Another type in python is the *Boolean* type. There are two *Boolean*
values: **True** and **False**. They can be created by comparing values,
for instance by using the equal to ==.


```py
my_boolean = True
print(my_boolean)
True

print(2 == 3)
False

print("hello" == 'hello')
True
```


> *Be careful not to confuse **assignment** (one equal sign) with
> **comparison** (two equal signs).*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Comparison

Another comparison operator, the **not equal** operator (!=), evaluates
to **True** if the items being compared aren't equal, and **False** if
they are.


```py
print(1 != 1)
False

print("eleven" != "seven")
True

print(2 != 10)
True
```


> *Comparison operators are also called **relational operators**.*

Python also has operators that determine whether one number (float or
integer) is greater than or smaller than another. These operators are \>
and \< respectively.


```py
print(7 > 5)
True

print(10 < 10)
False
```


> *Different numeric types can also be compared, for example, integer
> and float.*

The greater than or equal to, and the smaller than or equal to operators
are \>= and \<=. They are the same as the strict greater than and
smaller than operators, except that they return **True** when comparing
equal numbers.


```py
print(7<= 8)
True

print(9>=9.0)
True
```


Greater than and smaller than operators can also be used to compare
strings **lexicographically**. **For Example:**


```py
print("Annie" > "Andy")
True
```


------------------------------------------------------------------------

### If statements

You can use **if** statements to run code if a certain condition holds.
If the expression evaluates to **True**, some statements are carried
out.Otherwise they aren't carried out. An if statement looks like this:


```py
if expression:
    statements
```


> *Python uses **indentation**, (white spaces at the beginning of a
> line) to delimit blocks of code. Depending on the program's logic,
> indentation can be mandatory. As you can see, the statements in the
> **if** should be indented.*

Here is an example of **if** statement:


```py
if 10 > 5:
    print("10 is greater than 5")

print("The program ended")
```


The expression determines whether 10 is greater than 5. Since it is, the
indented statement runs, and "10 is greater than 5" is output. Then, the
unindented statement, which is not a part of the **if** statement, is
run, and "Program ended" is displayed.

> *Notice the **colon** at the end of the expression in the if
> statement.*

To perform more complex checks, **if** statements can be nested, one
inside the other. This means that the inner **if** statement is the
statement part of the outer one. This is one way to see whether multiple
conditions are satisfied.

**For example:**


```py
num = 12
if num > 5:
    print("Bigger than 5")
    if num <= 47:
        print("between 5 and 47")
```


> _**Indentation** is used to define the level of nesting._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### else Statements

The **if** statement allows you to check a condition and run some
statements, if the condition is **True**. The **else** statement can be
used to run some statements when the condition of the **if** statement
is **False**.

As with **if** statements, the code inside the block should be indented.


```py
x = 4
if x == 5:
    print("Yes")
else:
    print("No")
```


> *Notice the colon after the else keyword.*

Every **if** condition block can have only one **else** statement. In
order to make multiple checks, you can chain **if** and **else**
statements.

For example, the following program checks and outputs the **num**
variable's value as text:


```py
num = 3
if num == 1:
    print("One")
else:
    if num == 2:
        print("Two")
    else:
        if num == 3:
            print("Three")
```


> *Indentation determines which **if/else** statements the code blocks
> belong to.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### elif Statements

Multiple **if/else** statements make the code long and not very
readable. The **elif** (short for else if) statement is a shortcut to
use when chaining **if** and **else** statements, making the code
shorter.

The same example from the previous part can be rewritten using **elif**
statements:


```py
num = 3:
if num == 1:
    print("One")
elif num == 2:
    print("Two")
elif num == 3:
    print("Three")
else:
    print("None are true")
```


As you can see in the example above, a series of **if elif** statements
can have a final **else** block, which is called if none of the **if**
or **elif** expressions is **True**. 

> The **elif** statement is
equivalent to an **else/if** statement. It is used to make the code
shorter, more readable, and avoid indentation increase.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Boolean Logic

**Boolean logic** is used to make more complicated conditions for **if**
statements that rely on more than one condition. Python's Boolean
operators are **and**, **or**, and **not**. The **and** operator takes
two arguments, and evaluates as **True** if, and only if, both of its
arguments are **True**. Otherwise, it evaluates to **False**.


```py
